和一个“TikTok难民”简单聊了会儿，这事儿真是太有意思了[笑cry] （不好意思今天要搬的砖太多了，劳烦大家可以用自动翻译看看[苦涩]）

Q: May I ask why you decided to move to Rednote and refer to yourself as a "TikTok refugee"? Has your TikTok contact also moved to Rednote?

A: Yes! Many of us have found each other. Rednote has become the \#1 app in America since today. Half of America uses tik tok and it's easy to start and spread campaigns and messages so we all told each other to go on Rednote! So here we are!

Millions of Americans make their living of tik tok som banning it would make millions become unemployed.We r struggling with increased rent, no healthcare and so on and we are all fed up! We also hate hate facebook and Zuckerberg who paid politiwns to shut down tik tok hoping we would come to fb

Q: How have you been feeling on Rednote these first few days? Have you had pleasant interactions with other American and Chinese netizens?

A: It's been truly wonderful interacting with other Americans because it's like a revolution and we are all banding together to stand up for our freedom. It's mostly been wonderful meeting many Chinese people although our cultures differ on some topics like being gay which can be a little tricky.

Q: Some media claim that China is using TikTok to spy on Americans. What do you think about this? Are you concerned that the Chinese government or Chinese people might spy on you?

A: We don't care. Our own government and other apps like fb have been stealing our data and selling it and our government spies on its citizens so we are used to it. We don't care if China knows what food we like ect.

You should also know that mainstream American media does not speak for the majority of the people. They are told what to print and their censor stories and information unlike TikTok. Most of us believe they want to ban TikTok or own it because they can't control the narrative or us.

Q: Is your presence on Rednote a gesture of protest against the U.S. government, or are you seriously considering staying here?

A: We all hate our government and believe they only work for billionaires and corporations and don't care about us. We thought it would be funny to do exactly what they are afraid will happen to show them how stupid they are. The reason they banned tik tok is to silence us and control what info we see.

Our government vilifies China and says China will turn us against USA using TikTok. We all think that is ridiculous. So as a protest, and with much humor we all decided to go to Rednote and willingly give our info to China to show our government we don't care and challenge them.

