Everything Advanced Searching Directives

SearchingUse the search edit to type in a search.Everything will display the results immediately.SyntaxOperatorsspaceAND|OR!NOT< >Grouping" "Search for an exact phraseWildcards*Matches zero of more characters.?Matches one character.*.*Same as *

Wildcards match the whole filename. Disable Match whole filename when using wildcards to match wilcards anywhere in the filename.Macrosquot:Literal double quote (")apos:Literal apostrophe (')amp:Literal ampersand (&)lt:Literal less than (<)gt:Literal greater than (>)\#x:Literal unicode character x code.Modifiersascii:

utf8:

noascii:Enable or disable fast ASCII case comparisons.case:

nocase:Match or ignore case.diacritics:

nodiacritics:Match or ignore accent marks.file:

nofileonly:Match files only.folder:

nofolderonly:Match folders only.path:

nopath:Match the full path and file name or just the filename.regex:

noregex:Enable or disable regex.wfn:

wholefilename:

nowfn:

nowholefilename:Match the whole filename or match anywhere in the filename.wholeword:

ww:

nowholeword:

noww:Match whole words or match anywhere in the filename.wildcards:

nowildcards:Enable or disable wildcards.Functionsattrib:<attributes>

attributes:<attributes>Search for files and folders with the specified file attributes.child:<filename>Search for folders that contain a child with a matching filename.dateaccessed:<date>

da:<date>Search for files and folders with the specified date accessed.datecreated:<date>

dc:<date>Search for files and folders with the specified date created.datemodified:<date>

dm:<date>Search for files and folders with the specified date modified.daterun:<date>

dr:<date>Search for files and folders with the specified date run.

dupe:Search for duplicated filenames.

empty:Search for empty folders.

ext:<list>Search for files with a matching extension in the specified semi-colon delimited extension list.

fsi:<index>Search for files and folders in the specified zero based internal file system index.

len:<length>Search for files and folders that match the specified filename length.

parents:<count>Search for files and folders with the specified number of parent folders.

recentchange:<date>

rc:<date>Search for files and folders with the specified recently changed date.

root:Search for files and folders with no parent folders.

runcount:<count>Search for files and folders with the specified run count.

size:<size>Search for files with the specified size in bytes.

type:<type>Search for files and folders with the specified type.

Function syntaxfunction:valueEqual to value.

function:<=valueLess than or equal to value.

function:<valueLess than value.

function:=valueEqual to value.

function:>valueGreater than value.

function:>=valueGreater than or equal to value.

function:start..endIs in the range of values from start to end.

function:start-endIs in the range of values from start to end.

Size Syntax:size[kb|mb|gb]Size Constants:empty

tiny0 KB < size <= 10 KBsmall10 KB < size <= 100 KBmedium100 KB < size <= 1 MBlarge1 MB < size <= 16 MBhuge16 MB < size <= 128 MBgiganticsize > 128 MBunknown

Date Syntax:  

yearmonth/year or year/month depending on locale settings  

day/month/year, month/day/year or year/month/day depending on locale settings  

Date Constants:  

today  

yesterday  

<last|past|prev|current|this|coming|next><year|month|week>  

<last|past|prev|coming|next><x><years|months|weeks>  

<last|past|prev|coming|next><x><hours|minutes|mins|seconds|secs>  

january|february|march|april|may|june|july|august|september|october|november|december  

jan|feb|mar|apr|may|jun|jul|aug|sep|oct|nov|dec  

sunday|monday|tuesday|wednesday|thursday|friday|saturday  

sun|mon|tue|wed|thu|fri|sat  

unknown  

Attribute Constants:  

AArchive  

CCompressed  

DDirectory  

EEncrypted  

HHidden  

INot content indexed  

LReparse point  

NNormal  

OOffline  

PSparse file  

RRead only  

SSystem  

TTemporary  

VDevice  

Search options:  

Search options can be toggled from the Search menu.

Enabled search options are displayed in the right of the status bar. Double click the status bar part to disable the search option. Right click the status bar to show a list of search options.

Match CaseMatch or ignore case.Match Whole WordsMatch whole words or allow the match to occur any where in the filename.Match Pathmatch against the full path and filename or just the filename.Match Diacritics.Match or ignore accent marks.Enable RegexEnable or disable regular expressions.Everything

Audio

Compressed

Document

Executable

Folder

Picture

VideoMatch the specified type only. See Filters for more information.FiltersFilters are predefined searches. Only one filter can be active at a time. Filters can be toggled from the Search menu.

To create a new filter from the current search:In Everything, from the Search menu, click Add to filters....Type in a Name.Click OK.

To edit an existing filter:In Everything, from the Search menu, click Organize filters....Select a filter.Click Edit.BookmarksBookmarks can save the current search, filter, sort and index.

To create a new bookmark from the current search:In Everything, from the Bookmarks menu, click Add to bookmarks....Type in a Name.Click OK.

To organize bookmarks:In Everything, from the Bookmarks menu, click Organize bookmarks....MacrosCustom macros can be defined by filters and bookmarks.

To create a custom filter macro:Create a new filter or edit an existing one.Type in a macro name, for example:fooClick OK.Click OK.Searching for foo: will now be replaced by the filter's search.RegexRegex overrides the search syntax. Search operators, wildcards, macros, modifiers and functions do not work in regex mode.Regex must be enabled from the Search menu or prefix the search with

regex:

a|bMatches a or b

gr(a|e)yMatches gray or grey.

Matches any single character

[abc]Matches a single character a, b or c

[^abc]Matches any single character except a, b or c

[a-z]Matches a single charactor in the range a to z

[a-zA-Z]Matches a single charactor in the range a to z or A to Z

^Matches the start of the filename

$Matches the end of the filename

*Matches the preceding element zero or more times

?Matches the preceding element zero or one times

+Matches the preceding element one or more times

{x}Matches the preceding element x times

{x,}Matches the preceding element x or more times

{x,y}Matches the preceding element between x and y times

Examples

Search for ABC and 123:

ABC 123

Search for ABC or 123:

ABC|123

Search for everything except ABC:

!ABC

Search for mp3 files:

*.mp3

Search for mp3 files on the D: or E: drive:

<d:|e:> *.mp3

Search for jpg or png files on the D: drive:

d: <*.jpg|*.png>

Search for files or folders with no extension:

!.

Search for files only:

file:

Search for folders only:

folder:

Limit the search to a single folder:

c:\windows\ !c:\windows\*\*

Find files larger than 1MB:

size:>1mb

Instantly find files that have changed today:

rc:today

Find files and folders created this week:

dc:thisweek

Find files and folders created from the 1st August 2014 to 31st August 2014:

dc:1/8/2014-31/8/2014

or:

dc:8/1/2014-8/31/2014

Depending on your locale settings.

Find folders in D:\music that do not contain an mp3 file:

d:\music\ !child:mp3

Find filenames with non-ASCII characters:

regex:[^]a-zA-Z0-9`~!@`$%^&*()[\;',<>./:quot:?{}`174:_+=" "-]

